Seth born in the middle city to the cult. 
They learn that he's a vessel (due to dying and then resuscitating during birth or other reason, not sure). 
Upon learning the leaders of the cult torture him to keep him close to death. 
Once he reaches 18 birthday, they decide to try to summon death into this world into his body. 
It doesn't work (at least they think it didn't). 
Residual magic from the ritual causes an explosion and he manages to escape. 
Manages to escape to the one city (name pending). 
Kind stranger takes him in and heals him. 
Meanwhile the cult has sent people all over the region searching for him while also trying to bring more people in, in the hopes of finding a new vessel. 
Seth becomes obsessed with getting revenge and destroying the cult. 
While recovering, he finds a book about the 5 legendary heroes. 
He tries to find whatever he can about them as they were the enemies of death and seeing as the cult worships death he thinks thats a good starting point. 
As he gets better he starts to hear a voice, well screaming. 
Trying to find the source of the screaming, comes across an abandoned mansion. 
Inside he finds a statue of one of hte legendary heroes and the screaming is inside. 
Attempts to talk to the statue and eventually the screaming stops and it starts taliking to him. 
He learns that as a last ditch effort to get revenge death stuck the souls of the legendary heroes into statues where they could still see but not move. 
It as a way to punish tehm because they were immortal. 
Seth can hear them due to the ritual they did which allowed death to touch him.
The statue is incomplete, and to complete it and release teh soul he needs to reunite it with its weapon and signature item. 
Seth goes and finds these things and the soul of the warrior becomes part of his body. 
Upon fighting a minion of death, Kaleb (the warrior) takes control of his body and realises that this is a new power. 
Seth decides to go after the other warriors as this will give him the power he needs to get revenge. 
And the spirits also have unfinished business they want attended too. 
The spirts have also gone a little mad from the isolation.